= Nested Form

This is a Rails gem for conveniently manage multiple nested models in a single form. It does so in an unobtrusive way through jQuery or Prototype.

This gem only works with Rails 3. See the {rails2 branch}[https://github.com/ryanb/nested_form/tree/rails2] for a plugin to work in Rails 2.

An example project showing how this works is available in the {complex-nested-forms/nested_form branch}[https://github.com/ryanb/complex-form-examples/tree/nested_form].


== Changes in this repo

=== Enhanced jQuery javascript template

Now you can override default behavior of inserting new subforms into your form (jQuery-only feature, sorry). For example:

  window.nestedFormEvents.insertFields = function(content, assoc, link) {
    return $(link).closest('form').find(assoc + '_fields').append($(content));
  }
  
=== Rails 3.1 support (with asset pipeline)

There's a small fix for Rails 3.1 form handling. 
Also support of Rails 3.1 led me to huge refactor of specs setup (now using Helper specs from rspec-rails instead of custom implementation spec context).

Formtastic is supported only with Rails 3.0, Rails 3.1 integration is not available now.

Asset pipeline is supported. So you can use

  //= require jquery_nested_form
  // or
  //= require prototype_nested_form

== Setup

Add it to your Gemfile then run +bundle+ to install it.

  gem "nested_form"

Next run the generator to create the JavaScript file. This will automatically detect if you are using jQuery or Prototype.

  rails g nested_form:install

Running the generator will add a file at <tt>public/javascripts/nested_form.js</tt> which should be included after the jQuery or Prototype framework.

  <%= javascript_include_tag :defaults, "nested_form" %>


== Usage

Imagine you have a <tt>Project</tt> model that <tt>has_many :tasks</tt>. To be able to use this gem, you'll need to add <tt>accepts_nested_attributes_for :tasks</tt> to your Project model. If you don't have the <tt>accepts_nested_attributes_for :tasks</tt> you'll get a Missing Block Error.

This will create a <tt>tasks_attributes=</tt> method, so you may need to add it to the <tt>attr_accessible</tt> array. (<tt>attr_accessible :tasks_attributes</tt>)

Then use the +nested_form_for+ helper method to enable the nesting.

  <%= nested_form_for @project do |f| %>

You will then be able to use +link_to_add+ and +link_to_remove+ helper methods on the form builder in combination with fields_for to dynamically add/remove nested records.

  <%= f.fields_for :tasks do |task_form| %>
    <%= task_form.text_field :name %>
    <%= task_form.link_to_remove "Remove this task" %>
  <% end %>
  <p><%= f.link_to_add "Add a task", :tasks %></p>


== SimpleForm and Formtastic Support

Use <tt>simple_nested_form_for</tt> or <tt>semantic_nested_form_for</tt> for SimpleForm and Formtastic support respectively. This is feature is not yet in a Gem release but is in the Git repo.


== Partials

It is often desirable to move the nested fields into a partial to keep things organized. If you don't supply a block to fields_for it will look for a partial and use that.

  <%= f.fields_for :tasks %>

In this case it will look for a partial called "task_fields" and pass the form builder as an +f+ variable to it.


== Events

If you are using jQuery, <tt>nested:fieldAdded</tt> and <tt>nested:fieldRemoved</tt> events are triggered on the +form+ element after adding and removing fields.


== Special Thanks

This gem was originally based on the solution by Tim Riley in his {complex-form-examples fork}[https://github.com/timriley/complex-form-examples/tree/unobtrusive-jquery-deep-fix2].

Thank you Andrew Manshin for the Rails 3 transition, {Andrea Singh}[https://github.com/madebydna] for converting to a gem and {Peter Giacomo Lombardo}[https://github.com/pglombardo] for Prototype support.

Andrea also wrote a great {blog post}[http://blog.madebydna.com/all/code/2010/10/07/dynamic-nested-froms-with-the-nested-form-gem.html] on the internal workings of this gem.

Thanks {Pavel Forkert}[https://github.com/fxposter] for the SimpleForm and Formtastic support.
